Way back in August (man, we're busy around here!) myself, Pete Dokter and Jeff Branson took a road trip from SparkFun HQ in Boulder Colorado to Logan Utah for the 27th annual Small Satellite Conference.

Putting stuff into space is expensive. The amount of energy that it takes (from rocket fuel, and by extension, rocket) to lift something out of the atmosphere and accelerate it to orbital velocity is (A) a lot, and (B) directly proportional to the mass of the object that you're trying to launch. The smaller and lighter you can make your hardware, the less expensive the ride will be. In 1987, the founders of the Smallsat conference realized that the same revolution going on in the commercial electronics industry (smaller, lower-cost, lower-power, and more reliable components), could lead to smaller and more capable spacecraft. It turns out they were right beyond their wildest dreams.

Another factor that makes this conference so interesting is the student involvement. Back when the professionals were arguing over whether you could successfully use commercial electronic components in space, students were actually going ahead and doing it because their budgets didn't allow for anything else. The professionals took notice, and innovative student work has always been a major part of this conference.

Pete and I had attended last year's conference to check things out, and the response to a couple of guys from SparkFun just walking around was positive enough for us to plan on coming back next year with an actual SparkFun booth. Unlike pretty much every other company there, we don't sell aerospace hardware (we still don't have that $25,000 satellite on the storefront yet). But a lot of our stuff is used by people in the prototype stage (that our designs are open source is a big draw), and we wanted to talk to the people who know us and use our stuff, plus those who had never heard of us, to see what we could better do to support this community.

An important addition this year was Jeff Branson from our education department. Jeff had already been talking to several groups about supporting space-related education programs, and is nothing if not a huge space evangelist.

The theme of this year's conference was "Strength in Numbers," which refers not only to satellite constellations - multiple satellites handling bigger jobs than just one can, but also the fact that there are more and more opportunities to put small spacecraft into orbit, and more people than ever taking advantage of them. 

